README.md, before:

# MimiFAIRv2.jl

This is a work-in-progress respository for a Julia-Mimi implementation of the FAIRv2.0 simple climate model. The model description paper can be found at [FaIRv2.0.0: A Generalized Impulse Response Model for Climate Uncertainty and Future Scenario Exploration](https://gmd.copernicus.org/articles/14/3007/2021/gmd-14-3007-2021.html). 

## Running Mimi-FAIRv2
To run the model, execute the following code:

```julia

# Load the model code.
include("src/MimiFAIRv2.jl") # load the MimiFAIRv2 module
using Main.MimiFAIRv2 # bring the module into your namespace

# Create an instance of Mimi-FAIRv2.
m = get_model() 

# Run the model.
run(m)

# Access the temperature output.
fair_temps = m[:temperature, :T]

# Explore interactive plots of all the model output.
explore(m)
```

The `get_model()` function currently has the following keyword arguments:  

* `emissions_forcing_scenario`: One of the RCMIP scenarios from the original FAIRv2.0 paper. Current options include "ssp119", "ssp126", "ssp245", "ssp370", and"ssp585". The default is "ssp585".  
* `start_year`: The model has an option to be initialized at different time periods, however this is only currently set up to start in 1750.
* `end_year`: The model can be run out to 2500 (the default final year).  
* `TCR`: The transient climate response (default = 1.79).  
* `RWF`: The realized warming fraction, defined as the TCR/ECS ratio (default = 0.552).  
* `F2x`: The forcing from a doubling of CO2 (default = 3.759).  

\
\
![Python vs. Julia temperature comparison](https://github.com/FrankErrickson/MimiFAIRv2.jl/blob/main/data/python_replication_data/Python_Mimi_FAIR2_temperature_comparison.png)

Commit message:

Fix up module vs package text and code

README.md, after:

# MimiFAIRv2.jl

This is a work-in-progress respository for a Julia-Mimi implementation of the FAIRv2.0 simple climate model. The model description paper can be found at [FaIRv2.0.0: A Generalized Impulse Response Model for Climate Uncertainty and Future Scenario Exploration](https://gmd.copernicus.org/articles/14/3007/2021/gmd-14-3007-2021.html). 

## Preparing the Software Environment

To add the package without necessarily downloading the full repository, run the following command at the julia package REPL:

```julia
pkg> add https://github.com/FrankErrickson/MimiFAIRv2.jl.git # add MimiFAIRv2 module on main branch
```

To work locally assuming you have downloaded the full repository and want to work with that version, likely only if you want to actively develope the MimiFAIRv2 package itself, ou will later run the following command at the julia REPL, but do not need to call `add`.

```julia
include("src/MimiFAIRv2.jl") # load the MimiFAIRv2 module 
```

You probably also want to install the Mimi package into your julia environment, so that you can use some of the tools in there:

```julia
pkg> add Mimi
```
## Running the Model

The model uses the Mimi framework and it is highly recommended to read the Mimi  documentation first to understand the code structure. The basic way to access a copy of the default MimiFAIRv2 model and explore the resuts is the following:

```julia
using Mimi 
using MimiFAIRv2  # if you used the `pkg> add` syntax above and thus have the module in your environment

# note that instead of the line above one could call the following line, which
# may be particularly helpful for package development
# include("src/MimiFAIRv2.jl")

# Create an instance of MimiFAIRv2.
m = MimiFAIRv2.get_model() 

# Run the model.
run(m)

# Access the temperature output.
fair_temps = m[:temperature, :T]

# Explore interactive plots of all the model output.
explore(m)
```

The `get_model()` function currently has the following keyword arguments:  

* `emissions_forcing_scenario`: One of the RCMIP scenarios from the original FAIRv2.0 paper. Current options include "ssp119", "ssp126", "ssp245", "ssp370", and"ssp585". The default is "ssp585".  
* `start_year`: The model has an option to be initialized at different time periods, however this is only currently set up to start in 1750.
* `end_year`: The model can be run out to 2500 (the default final year).  
* `TCR`: The transient climate response (default = 1.79).  
* `RWF`: The realized warming fraction, defined as the TCR/ECS ratio (default = 0.552).  
* `F2x`: The forcing from a doubling of CO2 (default = 3.759).  

\
\
![Python vs. Julia temperature comparison](https://github.com/FrankErrickson/MimiFAIRv2.jl/blob/main/data/python_replication_data/Python_Mimi_FAIR2_temperature_comparison.png)
